.\" (C) Copyright 2018 Microsoft. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" See http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/maint-guide/dother.en.html#manpage1
.\"
.\" 1. Use this as the template for the manpage for <commandname> after
.\"    renaming this file to <commandname>.1 (if it is for section 1).
.\"
.\" 2. List the path to this file in debian/<packagename>.manpages to
.\"    install this manpage to the target binary package.
.\"
.\" First parameter, IOTEDGE, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH IOTEDGED 8 "Azure IoT Edge User Manuals" "June 2018"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
iotedged \- Azure IoT Edge Security Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBiotedged\fP
[\fB\-h\fP|\fB\-\-help\fP]
[\fB\-v\fP|\fB\-\-version\fP]
[\fB\-c\fP \fIFILE\fP|\fB\-\-config\-file\fP=\fIFILE\fP]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B iotedged.
.PP
\fBiotedged\fP is a program that...
.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.TP
\fB\-c \fP\fIFILE\fP, \fB\-\-config\-file\fP=\fIFILE\fP
Sets the daemon configuration file.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iotedge (1),
.br
.SH HISTORY
.PP
June 2018, Initial release
