.\" (C) Copyright 2018 Microsoft. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" See http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/maint-guide/dother.en.html#manpage1
.\"
.\" 1. Use this as the template for the manpage for <commandname> after
.\"    renaming this file to <commandname>.1 (if it is for section 1).
.\"
.\" 2. List the path to this file in debian/<packagename>.manpages to
.\"    install this manpage to the target binary package.
.\"
.\" First parameter, IOTEDGE, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH IOTEDGE 1 "Azure IoT Edge User Manuals" "June 2018"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
iotedge \- Management tool for Azure IoT Edge
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iotedge
.RI [ subcommands ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B iotedge.
.PP
\fBiotedge\fP is a program that...
.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
Use "iotedge help" or "iotedge --help" to get an overview of available commands.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP For specific client examples, please see the man page for the specific command.
For example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
man iotedge-list
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iotedged (8),
.br
.SH HISTORY
.PP
June 2018, Initial release
